Add doc dir for Keptn 0.16 (#1228)
keptn/keptn.github.io: content/docs/0.16.x/manage/shipyard/index.md

---
title: Shipyard
description: Information about shipyard, sequences and tasks to define processes and workflows.
weight: 25
keywords: [0.16.x-manage]
aliases:
---

## Declare Shipyard (before creating a project)

* A shipyard is defined at the level of a project. This means that all services in a project share the same shipyard definition.

* A shipyard defines the stages each deployment has to go through until it is released in the final stage, e.g., the production stage.

* A shipyard can consist of any number of stages; but at least one. A stage must have at least the name property.

* A stage can consist of any number of sequences; but at least one.

### Definition of Stage

> A stage is declared by its name. This name will be used for the branch in the Git repository and Kubernetes namespace to which services at this stage will be deployed to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A stage is declared by its name. This name is used for the branch in the Git repository and Kubernetes namespace to which services at this stage will be deployed.
```

* `automatic`: The artifact is deployed automatically.
* `manual`: The user is asked for approval before triggering the deployment.

This allows combinations as follows:

|                          | Evaluation result: pass           | Evaluation result: warning                 | Behavior  |
|--------------------------|-----------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|-----------|
| **Skip approval task:** | pass:automatic | warning:automatic | Regardless of the evaluation result, the approval task is skipped |
| **Depending on evaluation result:**   | pass:automatic | warning:manual    | If the evaluation result is a **warning**, an approval is required |
| **Depending on evaluation result:**   | pass:manual    | warning:automatic | If the evaluation result is a **pass**, an approval is required |
| **Mandatory approval task:**          | pass:manual    | warning:manual    | Regardless of the evaluation result, an approval is required |

> Per default, an `automatic` approval strategy is used for evaluation result `pass` and `warning`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, an `automatic` approval strategy is used for evaluation result `pass` and `warning`.
```

**Usage:**

```
- name: approval
  properties: 
    pass: automatic
    warning: manual
```

> **Note:** If the approval is the first task of a sequence, the approval service will not be provided with the result from a previous task. In this case, it will always fall back to the `manual` approval strategy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** If the approval is the first task of a sequence, the approval service is not provided with the result from a previous task. In this case, it always falls back to the `manual` approval strategy.
```

* `direct`: Deploys a new version of a service by replacing the old version of the service.
* `blue_green_service`: Deploys a new version of a service next to the old one. After a successful validation of this new version, it replaces the old one and is marked as stable (i.e., it becomes the `primary`-version).
* `user_managed` (experimental): Deploys a new version of a service by fetching the current helm-chart from the git repo, and just updating certain values.

**Usage:**

```
- name: deployment
  properties: 
    deploymentstrategy: blue_green_service
```

```
- name: deployment
  properties: 
    deploymentstrategy: direct
```

```
- name: deployment
  properties: 
    deploymentstrategy: user_managed
```

#### Evaluation

Defines the quality evaluation that is executed to verify the quality of a deployment based on its SLOs/SLIs.

**Usage:**
```
- name: evaluation
```

#### Get-Action

The get-action task is used to extract the desired remediation action from a remediation.yaml within a [remediation workflow](../../automated_operations/remediation).

**Usage:**

```
- name: get-action
```

#### Release

> Defines the releasing task that is executed after a successful deployment happened. This means that production traffic is shifted towards the new deployment in this task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Defines the releasing task that is executed after a successful deployment happens. This means that production traffic is shifted towards the new deployment in this task.
```

**Usage:**
```
- name: release
```

#### Action

Defines the execution of a remediation action retrieved by `get-action`.

**Usage:**
```
- name: action
```

#### Rollback

> Defines the rollback task that is executed when a rollback shall be triggered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Defines the rollback task that is executed when a rollback is triggered.
```

*Initial shipyard:*

```
apiVersion: "spec.keptn.sh/0.2.3"
kind: "Shipyard"
metadata:
  name: "shipyard-sockshop"
spec:
  stages:
    - name: "production"
      sequences:
        - name: "delivery"
          tasks:
            - name: "deployment"
              properties:
                deploymentstrategy: "blue_green_service"
            - name: "test"
              properties:
                teststrategy: "functional"
            - name: "evaluation"
            - name: "release"
```

**Use-case:** To intervene in the delivery process, I would like to add an `approval` task before the `release` task.

*Updated shipyard:*

```
apiVersion: "spec.keptn.sh/0.2.3"
kind: "Shipyard"
metadata:
  name: "shipyard-sockshop"
spec:
  stages:
    - name: "production"
      sequences:
        - name: "delivery"
          tasks:
            - name: "deployment"
              properties:
                deploymentstrategy: "blue_green_service"
            - name: "test"
              properties:
                teststrategy: "functional"
            - name: "evaluation"
            - name: "approval"
            - name: "release"
```

> **Result:** The next time this sequence gets triggered by Keptn, the task will be executed meaning that a `sh.keptn.event.[task].triggered` event is sent out. Make sure to have a Keptn-service that listens to this event type and can execute it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Result:** The next time Keptn triggers this sequence, the task is executed, meaning that a `sh.keptn.event.[task].triggered` event is sent out. Be sure to have a Keptn-service that listens to this event type and can execute it. 
```

### Add/Remove a task sequence to/from a stage

If you want to add or remove an additional task sequence to a stage, you can do this by adding/removing the sequence directly in the shipyard: 

*Initial shipyard:*

```
apiVersion: "spec.keptn.sh/0.2.3"
kind: "Shipyard"
metadata:
  name: "shipyard-sockshop"
spec:
  stages:
    - name: "production"
      sequences:
        - name: "delivery"
          tasks:
            - name: "deployment"
              properties:
                deploymentstrategy: "blue_green_service"
            - name: "test"
              properties:
                teststrategy: "functional"
            - name: "evaluation"
            - name: "release"
```

> **Use-case 1:** I would like to add an additional delivery process to the production stage that allows rolling-out a hotfix without testing and evaluation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Use-case 1:** I would like to add an additional delivery process to the production stage that allows rolling out a hotfix without testing and evaluation. 
```

*Updated shipyard:*

```
apiVersion: "spec.keptn.sh/0.2.3"
kind: "Shipyard"
metadata:
  name: "shipyard-sockshop"
spec:
  stages:
    - name: "production"
      sequences:
        - name: "delivery"
          tasks:
            - name: "deployment"
              properties:
                deploymentstrategy: "blue_green_service"
            - name: "test"
              properties:
                teststrategy: "functional"
            - name: "evaluation"
            - name: "release"

        - name: "remediation"
          triggeredOn:
            - event: "production.remediation.finished"
              selector:
                match:
                  evaluation.result: "fail"
          tasks:
            - name: "get-action"
            - name: "action"
            - name: "evaluation"
              triggeredAfter: "10m"
              properties:
                timeframe: "10m"
```

**Result:** After extending the shipyard as shown above, remediations should be executed when a problem event is retrieved (see [remediation workflow](../../automated_operations/remediation)).

### Define a trigger for a sequence 

> An advanced and powerful feature of the shipyard is that you can define *triggers* to kick-off a sequence. Therefore, a sequence offers the `triggeredOn` property where a list of events can be specified. The event type you can list there are events that refer to the status of a sequence execution. Their name follows the pattern:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An advanced and powerful feature of the shipyard is that you can define *triggers* to kick-off a sequence. Therefore, a sequence offers the `triggeredOn` property where a list of events can be specified. The event types you can list there are events that refer to the status of a sequence execution. Their name follows the pattern:
```

* `[stage_name].[sequence_name].finished` 

**Note:** It is not required to specify the full qualified event name which would be `sh.keptn.event.[stage_name].[sequence_name].finished` in this case

> Besides, a *match selector* can be added to an event that works as a filter on the `result` property of the event. Consequently, you can filter based on sequence executions that *failed* or *passed*, shown by the next example that filters on `failed`: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, a *match selector* can be added to an event to work as a filter on the `result` property of the event. Consequently, you can filter based on sequence executions that *failed* or *passed*, shown by the next example that filters on `failed`: 
```

* `delivery` in the *hardening* stage;
* `evaluation-only` in the *hardening* stage;
* `delivery` in the *production* stage.

```yaml
apiVersion: "spec.keptn.sh/0.2.3"
kind: "Shipyard"
metadata:
  name: "podtato-example"
spec:
  stages:
    - name: "hardening"
      sequences:
        - name: "delivery"
          tasks:
            - name: "deployment"
              properties:
                deploymentstrategy: "blue_green_service"
            - name: "test"
              properties:
                teststrategy: "performance"
            - name: "evaluation"
            - name: "release"
        - name: "evaluation-only"
          tasks:
            - name: "evaluation"
              properties:
                teststrategy: "performance"
    - name: "production"
      sequences:
        - name: "delivery"
          triggeredOn:
            - event: "hardening.delivery.finished"
          tasks:
            - name: "deployment"
              properties:
                deploymentstrategy: "blue_green_service"
            - name: "release"
```

> If we want to trigger the `delivery` sequence in the *hardening* stage, the following payload should be posted to the `POST /event` endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To trigger the `delivery` sequence in the *hardening* stage, post the following payload to the `POST /event` endpoint.
```

```json
{
  "data": {
    "project": "podtato-example",
    "service": "helloservice",
    "stage": "hardening"
  },
  "source": "https://github.com/keptn/keptn/cli#configuration-change",
  "specversion": "1.0",
  "time": "2022-02-01T12:50:04.720Z",
  "type": "sh.keptn.event.hardening.delivery.triggered",
  "shkeptnspecversion": "0.2.3"
}
```

> If we want to trigger the `delivery` sequence in the *production* stage, the following payload should be posted to the `POST /event` endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To trigger the `delivery` sequence in the *production* stage, post the following payload to the `POST /event` endpoint.
```

```json
{
  "data": {
    "project": "podtato-example",
    "service": "helloservice",
    "stage": "production"
  },
  "source": "https://github.com/keptn/keptn/cli#configuration-change",
  "specversion": "1.0",
  "time": "2022-02-01T12:50:04.720Z",
  "type": "sh.keptn.event.production.delivery.triggered",
  "shkeptnspecversion": "0.2.3"
}
```

> If we want to trigger the `evaluation-only` sequence in the *hardening* stage, the following payload should be posted to the `POST /event` endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To trigger the `evaluation-only` sequence in the *hardening* stage, post the following payload to the `POST /event` endpoint.
```

> Since we want to trigger an evaluation, we need to provide addition properties about the evaluation timeframe. More info are available in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since we want to trigger an evaluation, we need to provide addition properties about the evaluation timeframe. More information is provided in the
```
